CloudNativePG applications, architectures, bootstrapping, and backporting topics (#3134)
cloudnative-pg/cloudnative-pg: docs/src/architecture.md

!!! Important
    If you're deploying PostgreSQL in a self-managed Kubernetes environment,
    when you start planning your journey to the cloud native world, 
    read [Kubernetes architecture](#kubernetes-architecture).

## Synchronizing the state

PostgreSQL is a database management system. As such, it needs to be treated
as a *stateful workload* in Kubernetes. Stateless applications
mainly use traffic redirection to achieve high availability (HA) and
disaster recovery (DR). For a database, state must be replicated in
multiple locations, preferably in a continuous and instantaneous way, by
adopting either of the following strategies:

* Storage-level replication, normally persistent volumes
* Application-level replication, in this specific case, PostgreSQL

CloudNativePG relies on application-level replication because the
PostgreSQL database management system comes with robust and reliable
built-in physical replication capabilities based on write ahead log (WAL)
shipping. These features have been used in production by millions of users around
the world for over a decade.

PostgreSQL supports both asynchronous and synchronous streaming replication

> over the network, as well as asynchronous file-based log shipping. (File-based log shipping isnormally

Author: ```suggestion
over the network, as well as asynchronous file-based log shipping. (File-based log shipping is normally
```
